Mp4 release (#1189)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2021-03-24-microprofile40-open-liberty-21003.adoc

Get an introduction to MicroProfile Fault Tolerance with the Open Liberty guides link:{url-prefix}/guides/retry-timeout.html[Failing fast and recovering from errors] and link:{url-prefix}/guides/circuit-breaker.html[Preventing repeated failed calls to microservices].

==== Try it now 

Enable Fault Tolerance 3.0 and CDI in the `server.xml`, along with any other features you're using.

[source, xml]
----
<featureManager>
  <feature>mpFaultTolerance-3.0</feature>
  <feature>cdi-2.0</feature>
  <feature>jaxrs-2.1</feature>
</featureManager>
----

For more information:

* link:https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-fault-tolerance/releases/tag/3.0[MicroProfile Fault Tolerance 3.0 Release Page (Javadoc & Spec)]

* link:https://download.eclipse.org/microprofile/microprofile-fault-tolerance-3.0/microprofile-fault-tolerance-spec-3.0.html#release_notes_30[Release Notes]

[#metrics-3.0]
=== What's New in MicroProfile Metrics 3.0

> MicroProfile Metrics 3.0 introduces new metric values for the existing SimpleTimer and Timer metrics. Additionally a new REST metric is introduced for better monitoring and handling of unmapped exceptions. Manual configuration for re-usability has been removed. A notable change to the MicroProfile Metrics programming model regarding CDI Producers has been made. Lastly a medley of API improvements and refactoring have been added in this release.

Author: ```suggestion
MicroProfile Metrics 3.0 introduces new metric values for the existing SimpleTimer and Timer metrics. Additionally a new REST metric is introduced for better monitoring and handling of unmapped exceptions. A notable change to the MicroProfile Metrics programming model regarding CDI Producers has been made. Lastly a medley of API improvements and refactoring have been added in this release.
```

==== CDI Producer
The `@Metrics` annotation will no longer support the method target (i.e it can not be annotated on a method). Additionally, it will not support usage with CDI Producers.

==== Try it now 

Enable Metrics 3.0 in the `server.xml`, along with any other features you're using.

[source, xml]
----
<featureManager>
    <feature>mpMetrics-3.0</feature>
</featureManager>
----

More information:

* link:https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-metrics/releases/tag/3.0[MicroProfile Metrics 3.0 Release Page (Javadoc & Spec)]

* link:https://download.eclipse.org/microprofile/microprofile-metrics-3.0/microprofile-metrics-spec-3.0.html#release_notes_3_0[Release Notes]

[#health-3.0]
=== New changes in MicroProfile Health 3.0

MicroProfile Health 3.0 enables you to provide your own health check procedures to be invoked by Open Liberty, to verify the health of your microservices.

> MicroProfile Health allows services to report their health, and publish overall health status to a defined endpoint. A service reports "UP" if it is available and reports "DOWN" if it is unavailable. In addition to reporting the state of individual services, MicroProfile Health also agregates the the overall status as "UP" if all the services are "UP". If one of the services is "DOWN" then the overall status is also "DOWN". A service orchestrator can then use the health statuses to make decisions.

Author: ```suggestion
MicroProfile Health allows services to report their health, and publish overall health status to a defined endpoint. A service reports "UP" if it is available and reports "DOWN" if it is unavailable. In addition to reporting the state of individual services, MicroProfile Health also agregates the overall status as "UP" if all the services are "UP". If one of the services is "DOWN" then the overall status is also "DOWN". A service orchestrator can then use the health statuses to make decisions.
```

MicroProfile Health checks its own health by performing necessary self-checks and then reports its overall status by implementing the API provided by MicroProfile Health. A self-check can be a check on anything that the service needs, such as a dependency, a successful connection to an endpoint, a system property, a database connection, or the availability of required resources. MicroProfile offers checks for both liveness and readiness.

> In the `mpHealth-3.0` feature for Open Liberty: 

Author: ```suggestion
Significant changes in MicroProfile Health 3.0:
```

* link:{url-prefix}/guides/microprofile-openapi.html[Guide: Documenting RESTful APIs]
* link:https://download.eclipse.org/microprofile/microprofile-open-api-2.0/apidocs/[Javadoc]
* link:https://download.eclipse.org/microprofile/microprofile-open-api-2.0/microprofile-openapi-spec-2.0.html#release_notes_20[Release notes]

[#rest-client-2.0]
== Awesome new features in MicroProfile Rest Client 2.0

MicroProfile REST Client is a type-safe client API enabling rapid development of applications capable of consuming RESTful services. Version 2.0 is the latest update and adds support for HTTP proxy servers, automatically following HTTP redirects, Server Sent Events, and additional configuration options for JSON-B providers and multiple query parameters.

Shortly we will be publishing a dedicated blog post solely on MicroProfile Rest Client 2.0, which will demonstrate all the new features and how to use them.

[#jwt-1.2]
=== Enhancements in MicroProfile JWT Auth 1.2

MicroProfile JWT 1.2 simplifies the configuration for managing the validation of the JWT by introducing new MicroProfile Config properties. Enhanced signature algorithm support is added in this Open Liberty implementation.

> MicroProfile JWT 1.2 adds a number of MicroProfile Config properties to control different aspects of the JWT validation. The specification also adds support for the ES256 signature algorithm, while this Open Liberty beta supports using the RS384, RS512, HS384, HS512, ES256, ES384, and the ES512 signature algorithms.

Author: ```suggestion
MicroProfile JWT 1.2 adds a number of MicroProfile Config properties to control different aspects of the JWT validation. The specification also adds support for the ES256 signature algorithm. The Open Liberty implementation additionally supports using the RS384, RS512, HS384, HS512, ES256, ES384, and the ES512 signature algorithms.
```
